p8105_hw3_yg2625.md, before:

hw3\_yg2625
================
Yue Gu
October 13, 2018

Problem 1
=========

Data Cleaning
-------------

``` r
data(brfss_smart2010)
brfss_data = 
  brfss_smart2010 %>% 
  janitor::clean_names() %>% 
  rename(.data = ., state = locationabbr, county = locationdesc) %>% 
  filter(.data = ., topic == "Overall Health", response == "Excellent" || response == "Very good" || response == "Good" || response == "Fair" || reponse == "Poor") %>% 
  mutate(.data = ., response = as.factor(response)) %>% 
  arrange(.data = .,  match(response,c("Excellent", "Very good", "Good", "Fair", "Poor")))
```

Answering questions
-------------------

``` r
brfss_data %>% 
  filter(year == 2002) %>% 
  group_by(state) %>% 
  summarize(n_obs = n_distinct(county) == 7) %>% 
  filter(n_obs == T)
```

    ## # A tibble: 3 x 2
    ##   state n_obs
    ##   <chr> <lgl>
    ## 1 CT    TRUE 
    ## 2 FL    TRUE 
    ## 3 NC    TRUE

Hence, by the output, CT, FL, NC were observed at 7 locations in 2002.

The spaghetti plot shown below

``` r
brfss_data %>% 
  group_by(year, state) %>% 
  summarize(n_obs = n_distinct(county)) %>%
  ggplot(aes(x = year, y = n_obs, color = state)) + geom_line()
```

<img src="p8105_hw3_yg2625_files/figure-markdown_github/unnamed-chunk-3-1.png" width="90%" />

Required table shown below

``` r
brfss_data %>% 
  filter(.data = ., response == "Excellent", state == "NY", year == "2002"|year == "2006"|year == "2010") %>%
  group_by(year, state) %>% 
  summarize(mean_data = mean(data_value)，
            sd_data = sd(data_value)) %>% 
  knitr::kable(digits = 2)
```

|  year| state |  mean\_data|  sd\_data|
|-----:|:------|-----------:|---------:|
|  2002| NY    |       24.04|      4.49|
|  2006| NY    |       22.53|      4.00|
|  2010| NY    |       22.70|      3.57|

Required five-panel plot shown below

``` r
brfss_data %>% 
  group_by(year, state, response) %>% 
  summarize(mean_data = mean(data_value)) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = year, y = mean_data, color = state)) + 
    geom_line() + 
    facet_grid(.~response)
```

    ## Warning: Removed 2 rows containing missing values (geom_path).

<img src="p8105_hw3_yg2625_files/figure-markdown_github/unnamed-chunk-5-1.png" width="90%" />

Problem 2
=========

Description of exploration
--------------------------

``` r
data("instacart")
insta_data =
  instacart
  

dim(insta_data)
```

    ## [1] 1384617      15

``` r
n_distinct(insta_data$order_id)
```

    ## [1] 131209

``` r
n_distinct(insta_data$product_id)
```

    ## [1] 39123

``` r
n_distinct(insta_data$user_id)
```

    ## [1] 131209

``` r
n_distinct(insta_data$aisle_id)
```

    ## [1] 134

``` r
n_distinct(insta_data$department_id)
```

    ## [1] 21

Aisles
------

``` r
n_distinct(insta_data$aisle)
```

    ## [1] 134

``` r
head(arrange(count(insta_data, aisle_id), desc(n)), n = 1)
```

    ## # A tibble: 1 x 2
    ##   aisle_id      n
    ##      <int>  <int>
    ## 1       83 150609

``` r
## Plot
insta_data %>% 
  group_by(aisle_id) %>% 
  summarize(n = n()) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = as.character(aisle_id), y = n, color = as.character(aisle_id))) +
    geom_point(alpha = 0.5) +
    viridis::scale_color_viridis(
    name = "Aisle ID", 
    discrete = TRUE
  ) + 
    theme(legend.position = "bottom")
```

<img src="p8105_hw3_yg2625_files/figure-markdown_github/unnamed-chunk-7-1.png" width="90%" />

Table for most pop items
------------------------

``` r
insta_data %>% 
  filter(.data = ., aisle == "baking ingredients" | aisle == "dog food care" | aisle == "packaged vegetables fruits") %>% 
  group_by(aisle, product_name) %>%
  summarize(n = n()) %>% 
  filter(min_rank(desc(n)) == 1) %>% 
  knitr::kable()
```

| aisle                      | product\_name                                 |     n|
|:---------------------------|:----------------------------------------------|-----:|
| baking ingredients         | Light Brown Sugar                             |   499|
| dog food care              | Snack Sticks Chicken & Rice Recipe Dog Treats |    30|
| packaged vegetables fruits | Organic Baby Spinach                          |  9784|

Table for hr of the day
-----------------------

``` r
insta_data %>% 
  filter(.data = ., product_name == "Pink Lady Apples" | product_name == "Coffee Ice Cream") %>% 
  group_by(order_dow, product_name) %>% 
  summarize(mean_hr = mean(order_hour_of_day)) %>% 
  spread(key = order_dow, value = mean_hr) %>%
  rename(Sun = "0", Mon = "1", Tues = "2", Wed = "3", Thrs = "4", Fri = "5", Sat = "6", Product = product_name) %>% 
  knitr::kable(digit = 2)
```

| Product          |    Sun|    Mon|   Tues|    Wed|   Thrs|    Fri|    Sat|
|:-----------------|------:|------:|------:|------:|------:|------:|------:|
| Coffee Ice Cream |  13.77|  14.32|  15.38|  15.32|  15.22|  12.26|  13.83|
| Pink Lady Apples |  13.44|  11.36|  11.70|  14.25|  11.55|  12.78|  11.94|

Problem 3
=========

Data exploration
----------------

``` r
data(ny_noaa)
noaa_data = 
  ny_noaa

dim(ny_noaa)
```

    ## [1] 2595176       7

``` r
sum(is.na(ny_noaa$prcp))
```

    ## [1] 145838

``` r
sum(is.na(ny_noaa$snow))
```

    ## [1] 381221

``` r
sum(is.na(ny_noaa$snwd))
```

    ## [1] 591786

``` r
sum(is.na(ny_noaa$tmax))
```

    ## [1] 1134358

``` r
sum(is.na(ny_noaa$tmin))
```

    ## [1] 1134420

Data cleaning
-------------

``` r
noaa_data_tidy =
  noaa_data %>% 
  separate(date, into = c("year", "month", "day"), sep = "-") %>% 
  mutate(.data = ., prcp = as.numeric(prcp)/10, tmax = as.numeric(tmax)/10, tmin = as.numeric(tmin)/10)


head(arrange(count(noaa_data_tidy, snow), desc(n)), n = 1)
```

    ## # A tibble: 1 x 2
    ##    snow       n
    ##   <int>   <int>
    ## 1     0 2008508

0 is the most commonly obeserved value because not every day is snowing and when there's 0 snowfall when no snow is falling and the proportion of days in a year is relatively high.

Two-panel plot for avg max temp
-------------------------------

``` r
noaa_data_tidy %>% 
  filter(.data = ., month == "01" | month == "07", tmax != "") %>% 
  group_by(id, month, year) %>%
  summarize(tmax_mean = mean(tmax)) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = year, y = tmax_mean)) +
    geom_point()+
    facet_grid(. ~ month)
```

<img src="p8105_hw3_yg2625_files/figure-markdown_github/unnamed-chunk-12-1.png" width="90%" />

Two-panel plot for last question
--------------------------------

``` r
library(patchwork)
t_vs_p = ggplot(noaa_data_tidy, aes(x = tmax, y = tmin)) +
  geom_hex()

noaa_data_snow =
  noaa_data_tidy %>% 
  filter(.data = ., snow > 0 & snow < 100)

snow_dist_p = ggplot(noaa_data_snow, aes(x = snow, fill = year)) +
  geom_density()

t_vs_p + snow_dist_p
```

    ## Warning: Removed 1136276 rows containing non-finite values (stat_binhex).

<img src="p8105_hw3_yg2625_files/figure-markdown_github/unnamed-chunk-13-1.png" width="90%" />

Commit message:

Added comments and answers to the questions in problem 2, modified the code to show result more clearly

p8105_hw3_yg2625.md, after:

hw3\_yg2625
================
Yue Gu
October 13, 2018

Problem 1
=========

Data Cleaning
-------------

``` r
data(brfss_smart2010)
brfss_data = 
  brfss_smart2010 %>% 
  janitor::clean_names() %>% 
  rename(.data = ., state = locationabbr, county = locationdesc) %>% 
  filter(.data = ., topic == "Overall Health", response == "Excellent" || response == "Very good" || response == "Good" || response == "Fair" || reponse == "Poor") %>% 
  mutate(.data = ., response = as.factor(response)) %>% 
  arrange(.data = .,  match(response,c("Excellent", "Very good", "Good", "Fair", "Poor")))
```

Answering questions
-------------------

``` r
brfss_data %>% 
  filter(year == 2002) %>% 
  group_by(state) %>% 
  summarize(n_obs = n_distinct(county) == 7) %>% 
  filter(n_obs == T)
```

    ## # A tibble: 3 x 2
    ##   state n_obs
    ##   <chr> <lgl>
    ## 1 CT    TRUE 
    ## 2 FL    TRUE 
    ## 3 NC    TRUE

### Hence, by the output, CT, FL, NC were observed at 7 locations in 2002.

### The "spaghetti plot"" shown below

``` r
brfss_data %>% 
  group_by(year, state) %>% 
  summarize(n_obs = n_distinct(county)) %>%
  ggplot(aes(x = year, y = n_obs, color = state)) + geom_line()
```

<img src="p8105_hw3_yg2625_files/figure-markdown_github/unnamed-chunk-3-1.png" width="90%" />

### Required table shown below

``` r
brfss_data %>% 
  filter(.data = ., response == "Excellent", state == "NY", year == "2002"|year == "2006"|year == "2010") %>%
  group_by(year, state) %>% 
  summarize(mean_data = mean(data_value)，
            sd_data = sd(data_value)) %>% 
  knitr::kable(digits = 2)
```

|  year| state |  mean\_data|  sd\_data|
|-----:|:------|-----------:|---------:|
|  2002| NY    |       24.04|      4.49|
|  2006| NY    |       22.53|      4.00|
|  2010| NY    |       22.70|      3.57|

### Required five-panel plot shown below

``` r
brfss_data %>% 
  group_by(year, state, response) %>% 
  summarize(mean_data = mean(data_value)) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = year, y = mean_data, color = state)) + 
    geom_line() + 
    facet_grid(.~response)
```

    ## Warning: Removed 2 rows containing missing values (geom_path).

<img src="p8105_hw3_yg2625_files/figure-markdown_github/unnamed-chunk-5-1.png" width="90%" />

Problem 2
=========

Description of exploration
--------------------------

``` r
data("instacart")
insta_data =
  instacart

dim(insta_data)
```

    ## [1] 1384617      15

``` r
n_distinct(insta_data$order_id)
```

    ## [1] 131209

``` r
n_distinct(insta_data$product_id)
```

    ## [1] 39123

``` r
n_distinct(insta_data$user_id)
```

    ## [1] 131209

``` r
n_distinct(insta_data$aisle_id)
```

    ## [1] 134

``` r
n_distinct(insta_data$department_id)
```

    ## [1] 21

### Hence, by the output, we know the size of the dataset is 1384617 rows with 15 columns, there is 1384617 observations in the datasets. Every observations represent a product from an order, and there is 131209 unique orders, 39123 unique products, 131209 unique users and 21 departments in the datasets.

### Some important key variables may include order\_id, product\_id, order\_number, aisle\_id and product\_name, which provide us details of a product in an order from an aisle with the name a product.

### For example, for the first observation in our dataset, we know its product ID is 49302 and it's the first item that was added to cart with the history of being ordered by the past.The product's customer ID is 112106 and it belows to the train. The order sequence of the product is the 4th that was placed on Thursday at 10. 9 days since the last order and it's BUlgarian Yogurt from 20th aisle named yogurt in 16th department called dairy eggs.

Answering questions
-------------------

``` r
n_distinct(insta_data$aisle)
```

    ## [1] 134

``` r
head(arrange(count(insta_data, aisle_id), desc(n)), n = 1)
```

    ## # A tibble: 1 x 2
    ##   aisle_id      n
    ##      <int>  <int>
    ## 1       83 150609

### There are 134 unique aisles and the most items ordered aisle is N0.83 with 150609 products.

### Requied Plot shown below

``` r
insta_data %>% 
  group_by(aisle_id) %>% 
  summarize(n = n()) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = as.character(aisle_id), y = n, color = as.character(aisle_id))) +
    geom_point(alpha = 0.5) +
    viridis::scale_color_viridis(
    name = "Aisle ID", 
    discrete = TRUE
  ) + 
    theme(legend.position = "bottom")
```

<img src="p8105_hw3_yg2625_files/figure-markdown_github/unnamed-chunk-8-1.png" width="90%" />

### Table for most popopular items in 3 required aisles

``` r
insta_data %>% 
  filter(.data = ., aisle == "baking ingredients" | aisle == "dog food care" | aisle == "packaged vegetables fruits") %>% 
  group_by(aisle, product_name) %>%
  summarize(n = n()) %>% 
  filter(min_rank(desc(n)) == 1) %>% 
  knitr::kable()
```

| aisle                      | product\_name                                 |     n|
|:---------------------------|:----------------------------------------------|-----:|
| baking ingredients         | Light Brown Sugar                             |   499|
| dog food care              | Snack Sticks Chicken & Rice Recipe Dog Treats |    30|
| packaged vegetables fruits | Organic Baby Spinach                          |  9784|

Table for the mean hour of the day ath 2 product name required
--------------------------------------------------------------

``` r
insta_data %>% 
  filter(.data = ., product_name == "Pink Lady Apples" | product_name == "Coffee Ice Cream") %>% 
  group_by(order_dow, product_name) %>% 
  summarize(mean_hr = mean(order_hour_of_day)) %>% 
  spread(key = order_dow, value = mean_hr) %>%
  rename(Sun = "0", Mon = "1", Tues = "2", Wed = "3", Thrs = "4", Fri = "5", Sat = "6", Product = product_name) %>% 
  knitr::kable(digit = 2)
```

| Product          |    Sun|    Mon|   Tues|    Wed|   Thrs|    Fri|    Sat|
|:-----------------|------:|------:|------:|------:|------:|------:|------:|
| Coffee Ice Cream |  13.77|  14.32|  15.38|  15.32|  15.22|  12.26|  13.83|
| Pink Lady Apples |  13.44|  11.36|  11.70|  14.25|  11.55|  12.78|  11.94|

Problem 3
=========

Data exploration
----------------

``` r
data(ny_noaa)
noaa_data = 
  ny_noaa

dim(ny_noaa)
```

    ## [1] 2595176       7

``` r
sum(is.na(ny_noaa$prcp))
```

    ## [1] 145838

``` r
sum(is.na(ny_noaa$snow))
```

    ## [1] 381221

``` r
sum(is.na(ny_noaa$snwd))
```

    ## [1] 591786

``` r
sum(is.na(ny_noaa$tmax))
```

    ## [1] 1134358

``` r
sum(is.na(ny_noaa$tmin))
```

    ## [1] 1134420

Data cleaning
-------------

``` r
noaa_data_tidy =
  noaa_data %>% 
  separate(date, into = c("year", "month", "day"), sep = "-") %>% 
  mutate(.data = ., prcp = as.numeric(prcp)/10, tmax = as.numeric(tmax)/10, tmin = as.numeric(tmin)/10)


head(arrange(count(noaa_data_tidy, snow), desc(n)), n = 1)
```

    ## # A tibble: 1 x 2
    ##    snow       n
    ##   <int>   <int>
    ## 1     0 2008508

0 is the most commonly obeserved value because not every day is snowing and when there's 0 snowfall when no snow is falling and the proportion of days in a year is relatively high.

Two-panel plot for avg max temp
-------------------------------

``` r
noaa_data_tidy %>% 
  filter(.data = ., month == "01" | month == "07", tmax != "") %>% 
  group_by(id, month, year) %>%
  summarize(tmax_mean = mean(tmax)) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = year, y = tmax_mean)) +
    geom_point()+
    facet_grid(. ~ month)
```

<img src="p8105_hw3_yg2625_files/figure-markdown_github/unnamed-chunk-13-1.png" width="90%" />

Two-panel plot for last question
--------------------------------

``` r
library(patchwork)
t_vs_p = ggplot(noaa_data_tidy, aes(x = tmax, y = tmin)) +
  geom_hex()

noaa_data_snow =
  noaa_data_tidy %>% 
  filter(.data = ., snow > 0 & snow < 100)

snow_dist_p = ggplot(noaa_data_snow, aes(x = snow, fill = year)) +
  geom_density()

t_vs_p + snow_dist_p
```

    ## Warning: Removed 1136276 rows containing non-finite values (stat_binhex).

<img src="p8105_hw3_yg2625_files/figure-markdown_github/unnamed-chunk-14-1.png" width="90%" />
